Synapse 1.51 (#1238)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/blog/2022/01/2022-01-25-synapse-1.51-released.mdx

---
date: '2022-01-25'
title: Synapse 1.51 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Brendan Abolivier
---

[Synapse 1.51](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.51.0) is out! Here's what's new with this week's release.

## Deprecation of the `webclient` listener

A long time ago, Synapse used to serve a very basic web Matrix client (named "console") that could be used to connect to the homeserver. Server administrators could chose to make it available to their users by configuring a `webclient` listener.

This web client was removed in [Synapse 0.34](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v0.34.0) back in 2018, but the `webclient` listener stayed, instead allowing server admins to serve the web client of their choice (or redirect to it) through the `web_client_location` configuration file.

This version of Synapse deprecates the `webclient` listener, as well as the ability to set `web_client_location` to a static directory (instead of a HTTP(S) URL). These will be removed in Synapse 1.53. See the [upgrade notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/develop/upgrade#upgrading-to-v1510) for more information.

## Aggregations and sync

> The concept of a server-side aggregation in Matrix is defined in [MSC2675](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2675) and is the ability for homeservers to extend the information included in an event using other events that relate to it. This allows, for example, clients to quickly retrieve the reactions associated with a given message, or its latest edit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The concept of server-side aggregation in Matrix is defined in [MSC2675](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2675) and is the ability for homeservers to extend the information included in an event using other events that relate to it. This allows, for example, clients to quickly retrieve the reactions associated with a given message, or its latest edit.
```

nitpick: aggregation is both a verb and a noun, but colloquially I believe that it's better known as a verb (and the rest of the sentence refers to it as such).

This release includes a number of notable performance improvements to calculating aggregations when responding to `/sync` requests. We continue to measure and investigate potential performance improvements in this area, which should end up greatly benefiting `/sync` response times.

## FOSDEM

> [FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org), one of the biggest gatherings around free and open-source software in the world, is happening next week! Just like last year, the conference will happen online, and will be hosted on Matrix, and just like last year it will be packed with super interesting Matrix-related (but not only) talks.

Reviewer: This is a bit of a run-on sentence. I'd break it up into two sentences, like:
```suggestion
[FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org), one of the biggest gatherings around free and open-source software in the world, is happening next week! Just like last year, the conference will happen online and will be hosted on Matrix. And just like last year, it will be packed with super interesting Matrix-related (but not only) talks.
```

> One new addition to this year's edition is the presence of a whole devroom dedicated to Matrix. It will be hosted on February 6th, and you can already find its whole schedule of talks [right here](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/matrixorg_foundation_and_community/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One new addition this year is the presence of a whole devroom dedicated to Matrix. It will be hosted on February 6th, and you can already find its whole schedule of talks [right here](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/matrixorg_foundation_and_community/).
```

nitpick: addition / edition sound quite similar, so it feels a repetitive to put them next to each other.

> The Synapse team will be giving a couple of talks during the day: [Events for the Uninitiated](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/event/matrix_events_uninitiatied/) by Shay at 11:10, and [Beyond the Matrix: Extend the capabilities of your Synapse homeserver](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/event/matrix_extend_synapse/) by yours truly at 16:40 (all times CET). Come say hi! 🙂

Reviewer: Should we link github or matrix profiles here? There don't seem to be any contact details on fosdem's website.

Author: Contact details for the speakers are added by the speakers themselves (eg I've got a few on [mine](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/speaker/brendan_abolivier/)), so I'd rather delegate that to the fosdem system.

Reviewer: Aha, that's cool then.

## Everything else

> This release includes a couple of spaces-related bug fixes, specifically related to the `/_matrix/client/v1/room/{roomId}/hierarchy` API. One of them specifically targets a bug that would happen for spaces that include more than 50 rooms, and should make it much easier to look for a specific room inside a space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release includes a couple of spaces-related bug fixes, specifically related to the `/_matrix/client/v1/room/{roomId}/hierarchy` API. One of them targets a bug in spaces that include more than 50 rooms, and should make it much easier to look for a specific room inside a space.
```

Author: (edited a bit to "unflatten" the sentence a bit)

> The `synapse_review_recent_signups` script, which allows homeserver administrators to review recent signups (e.g. in the event of a spam attack), was also improved with an option to exclude virtual users belonging to an application service. See `synapse_review_recent_signups --help` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `synapse_review_recent_signups` script, which allows homeserver administrators to review recent signups (e.g. in the event of a spam attack), was also improved with an option to exclude virtual users belonging to an application service from the results. See `synapse_review_recent_signups --help` for more information.
```
